the first and second semester that drank a whole lot, that's why.
It was more of the camaraderie type thing and a lot of it was, it became interesting.
We would, I do remember this, we'd start off complaining about what went wrong
in the outfit that week who we weren't going to act like when we were sophomores, who we weren't going to act like when we were juniors.
Total reversal.
Sophomore, we weren't going to be near that mean.
Junior, there's no way we're going to have as like today's gladitude as some of them had.
We thought the seniors hung the moon.
Small senior class, but really neat guys.
And then we talked about what we were going to do the next week.
So it was all, again, it was really, there was a really tight focus on the outfit
Right.
Now, meanwhile, you're not going to class as often as you should.
Yep.
My grades aren't doing as well as they should or it's not sinking in or something's not working.
And your grades go home to your folks.
Mm-hmm.
And what's their reaction?
My parents would probably die if they heard this.
My next brother got all the encouragement in the world about GPs.
I didn't.
I was the oldest.
And they just kind of let me do my own thing.
And, I mean, there was nothing that ever...
I mean, dad would talk every once in a while that, you know, I might end up in an oil field if I don't get a job right.
All right.
That first semester, as far as you recall, how often did you communicate with mom and dad?
Letters, phone calls?
I wasn't a very good letter writer.
Probably a phone call a week and not a lot.
And about how often did you go home?
Oh, not much at all.
Maybe three times, four times max.
Okay.
I loved what I was doing, and that was fun.
I mean, I liked being at A&M.
I liked the core part of it.
Didn't like the grades as much, struggled with that, but loved the core.
Now, that first semester, remember how academically, how many?
1.9.
All right, and what course, how many?
And that's on a four-point, as we know that?
Oh, yeah.
All right, how many hours were you taking?
I think I had 15 or 16 at that time.
Did you flunk anything?
No, I don't think I had an N, but I had lots of C's and D's.
And you were officially, you were?
I had a B in military science.
Officially you were majoring in?
I think it was poli-sci at that time.
I think it was poli-sci and then I switched to sociology and then I switched to history and then I switched to anthropology.
Okay.
The, uh, uh.
Haskell's now already, why am I sitting here interviewing this guy?
A court trip that fall?
Oh, yeah.
Fort Worth, Warren's house.
We did two court trips.
Fort Worth was one.
Didn't we do Austin that year or two?
So we went to TCU.
I think we went to Austin, but I remember TCU because it was our first one.
How'd you get up there?
I had just got, that's when I brought up my bug.
It was late in the semester.
I was able, I think at the midway point, they let us bring cars on campus.
My parents did.
So I brought the VW.
We had, there were five of us that piled into that, drove it up to Warren Russell's house.
He lived about a block and a half from TCU Stadium.
And we all, there were 13 of us, or 12 of us, we all piled into his house.
His mom was a real delight.
I remember we went out and tried to soak their fountains the night before.
There were some other things that we were thinking of doing, but they were garden things.
And so we ended up trying to find some places to meet some TCU girls who had absolutely no desire to meet clean shaven Aggies.
And so we ended up back at Warren's place.
His mom fixed incredible meals, I remember that.
And we were up bright and early shining, marching,
Obviously did well in the march in and the game, we walked to the game which was kind of fun.
Back to school on the same morning.
Then you spent the night, Saturday night up there.
Friday and Saturday night.
Then came back early Sunday.
Because we had to get back to get rooms ready for inspection Monday.
So it always took us three to four hours on a Sunday afternoon to get the rooms shipped straight.
Right.
In four years of core trips, do you remember any negative reaction by the people during the parade or anything like that?
And this was during Nob.
I mean, my class, when we graduated class of 75 officers, they were very, I think I read that was the smallest group of commissioned officers of any year since World War II, up to now.
I mean, it was, no, but we had no problems.
Even when we went to that place in Austin, we didn't have any problems.
Okay, then you go home Christmas.
Any mind changing yet?
You didn't ask about bonfire, my fish here.
Oh, oh, oh, yes.
Oh, bonfire, yes.
Yeah.
I had banged my knee up in baseball in Tomball, Texas the summer before.
So I didn't work on bonfire very much at all because my knee was swollen and I was going to go in for knee surgery at Christmas.
The person that turned out to be my junior and senior old lady had his leg broken.
Compound double fracture.
In the cut.
How?
I was in the cut area that day.
As I understand it, because I remember what happened after that.
As I understand that one of the commands, and there's still question whether it was
The junior or the sophomore, I think it was the sophomore, issued it.
But the front half heaved and the back half dropped and John was standing in the middle and he had a compound fracture that came through and they took him down to Herman.
So my recollection of bonfire my fish here was guys coming back in crying.
and we all piled into cars and went down to Herman.
Couldn't see John except for very briefly.
We ate in an all night hunter and drove back.
I remember Bill White just being in an absolute state of shock and Mike Thompson I think was the same way.
They probably thought that the outfit was going to get some real problems at that time.
And everybody was worried about John.
We didn't know if John would walk again.
That's what they were saying at that time.
And so it was,
You know, I remember the blaze, I remember all the other things, but that was my memory.
About how long did folks work on Bonfire then?
Oh, gosh, we were starting in the cut early on.
I mean, memory's hazy, because it's been, you know, a quarter of a century, but it was, I think we were in the cut areas in October.
Okay.
You're saying a good month.
Yeah, oh, yeah, yeah.
And it was built, you know, behind Duncan at that time, so we had guys going out now.
They wouldn't let us go out and work on the stack and the EMEs or even guard if our grades weren't going.
So I was already being limited what I could do because my GPs weren't there.
Now, and it was one?
No, I think we were cake at that time.
It was several layers, yeah.
And, you know, sometimes I'd love to go back, now that I'm into history as much, and look at the sizes because they all, you know, grow with the years.
But I think we had our fish here, we were saying it was at that 90, 100-foot level, so it was a pretty tall one.
And it was a fish log that broke John's leg, so it was the biggest log they were trying to carry out.
And I remember very clearly that we knew that log was on the fire because we carved it in memory of John and put it on the stack.
Now, as far as you know, how did his leg come out?
I still stay in touch with John.
John and I talk a lot.
It's been tough on John, but I don't think it's Bonfair related.
No, but I mean he's been able to walk and all that.
He ultimately had pins put in his hip and his knee area.
He's got a long rod down it.
It still bothers him a great deal.
He goes into the orthopedist often on every couple of months.
Weather changes are absolutely brutal on him.
It's literally a pin that goes from his hip to his knee.
He was never supposed to walk, but he was jogging our sophomore year.
He would make most of a run out to Easterwood at a fast type of jog.
And he's even jogging in the last couple of years.
That's, I think, the only way that he's been able to keep that leg going.
Did A&M help to pay any of the medical expenses?
I don't think so.
I think it was one of those things, out of sight, out of mind, we just won't deal with it, and I'm not sure how much it ever even got outside of the core area.
It was one of, it was an accident that happened in the cut area, but everybody said it was an accident, and nobody drew a lot of attention to it.
John changed a lot after that, but outside of that, there wasn't anything else.
Right, as you recall, the four years of Bonfire when you were a student, are there some things that you recall that obviously were
should not have happened?
No.
You know, I went in the cut area the day that John still happened.
The other times that I was there, either in cut or in junior and senior, I was out at the stacks, nothing.
There was a
You would find on the periphery the wannabe types would be doing some drinking, but the other people that were there, particularly Red Pots and people that were on the stacks, it was pretty straight-laced.
It was real focused on what you could and couldn't do.
After John's accident, I know that our sophomore year, when we were in charge of the cuts, we were really...
grilled pretty harsh on what we could and couldn't do and how to do it.
A lot more supervision that year.
I don't know if it was a result of John or I think it was just the overall tightening up of what was going on at that stage of the game.
And let's see, did we win the, we didn't win the game that year.
I think we were 1-10 that year.
And Gene Stallings departed.
The, you go home Christmas.
Right.
And go right into surgery before Christmas.
Had my knee operated on.
Oh wow.
And which was devastating because when I came out, whether it was real or not, or mental,
it appeared that I wouldn't be able to be airborne and Ranger.
And so I was starting to get concerned about what I was going to do with the military now.
But yeah, I came back on crutches.
And this is an interesting thing in my life.
I mean, I did a lot of growing up at A&M.
Because of the focus and the intensity,
Of that first semester, I actually got out the first two weeks, maybe even three weeks of my second semester and was a non-reg.
And then I went back to the Corps.
And I think it was actually only about a week or two out.
And obviously, it was even worse than going back.
But it all turned out fine.
But yeah, I was in Davis-Gurie for two weeks and then went back to the Corps.
And it was something that I really missed.
And I figured maybe there's a way I can get my grades worked on.
All right, now that spring semester, your first year, you don't really make many changes in your study habits?
I go to school, I go to class a lot more, but it's not hitting.
I'm not getting the study time, and I hadn't found a library yet, and hadn't found some quiet places in the sea.
The person that really changed my outlook on grades actually happened my second semester, sophomore year.
So I was still struggling with what it was being.
And I didn't ask for help.
You didn't ask for help on anything.
And that was kind of the mode, I don't know about it, in the rest of the court, but in our outfit, you didn't ask.
So I was struggling on how to be a student.
And so that goes the whole spring semester.
Oh, yeah.
All right, then you didn't go anywhere spring break unusual.
What about going through final review the first time?
Oh, but the end of Parents' Day was the time.
Okay.
Now, you probably haven't figured out why the intensity.
We went from 40th in the Corps to Outstanding Unit at Parents' Day.
Oh, boy.
We got General Moore that year.
Oh.
Did y'all know in advance you were going to win?
We knew a week out.
We didn't know we'd won it.
We understood what all the force was and why the attention and why the new attention on grades.
Because my class was dragging them down.
So we got an outstanding unit.
We had an interesting time the weekend before
Parents' Day, we got an idea that it might be worth having all of our parents come up.
We were going to be in contention for some stuff.
Didn't know if we were going to get the award.
Remember they had three cranes that year up.
They had one on top of Oceanography.
They had one on top of Rudder.
They had one on top of Harrington.
Just magically, D-275 appeared at the end of each one of those cranes.
There were four of us that did that.
How did you all do that?
Describe that.
Oceanography was the one I remember because it was the highest.
I mean, literally climbing up the oceanography stairs and then climbing up the crane.
I got up to the arm on the crane.
One of the other guys, who had been our CEO, Don Boyd, got all the way out and painted on all three of them, D275.
And we did it after a Rare Earth concert.
and Rare Earth was a hard rock band, and everybody was country in the core but us.
We were the hard rock guys.
And so here we were dancing in heaven, or not dancing, but really enjoying the concert.
It was the Friday night before Parents' Day the next day.
And so that night we were looking for something to do and four of us went out to do it.
Now this is the spring of 72.
Yeah.
Your fresh year.
April 72.
Okay.
And then we won the court the next day.
And you paint with, is it paint?
White paint.
White paint, big letters.
D-2-75.
Whose idea was it?
Actually all of us bought into it, but it's really Don Boyd.
Call him wild man.
And we wanted to leave a statement of,
We knew that we had a shot at getting this outstanding unit, so we figured, you were the fish that did it, let's make a statement.
And so we went out on the cranes.
And nobody got caught.
No.
And nobody fell.
Yeah.
And obviously there was no guard.
No.
On any of it.
Which one did you do first?
Oceanography.
The others were easy.
Oceanography was the tough one.
Okay.
And we did them all that night.
About what time?
Oh, it was late.
I mean, we were barely awake when we fell out for Parents' Day, Saturday for the first ceremony.
So it was one, two, three, four in the morning.
What was the reaction when that was discovered?
Well, see, we won the court the next day, so we thought that would mute it.
It didn't.
And so we had some really, really intense physical training the next week.
I mean, it was, you know, there was no sophomore privileges being handed down.
You were lots of raincoats in the showers and sauna doing push-ups and sit-ups and lots of other stuff going on that was...
We did a couple of really early morning runs out to Easterwood, and we ended up doing PT in that ditch behind President Williams' house early in the morning and stuff like that.
But no real effort to find who the perpetrators were?
No, they tried to, and we were pretty much fish, and we all stuck together back then, and that's why we all suffered as a fish class to the extent of the PT stuff.
But there was nobody from outside the, I mean, I'm sure the outfit was getting pressured, but we were only fish, I mean, and so we were, I mean,
They did the typical stuff, no mouthwash, no deodorant, you can't shave, I mean, you can't shower and all that kind of stuff.
So we retaliated, we ate garlic, and Ed, bless his heart, had a bad dental problem, so it got even worse.
But they never did find out, they may have guessed who it was, but they never did find out who the four were.
About how long did that, did those signs remain up there?
How long before they?
I don't remember, I just remember the immediate effect.
I don't know if they were painted over the next day or not, but it was white paint.
All right, then at final review, did anybody from your family come up?
Yeah, family did.
My family was really good about coming up to the military type stuff, to the events and that kind of stuff, because I think that's what got my two brothers energized.
And my girlfriend at that time was up there and that kind of stuff.
But it was all...
I was going to stay at my sophomore, my freshman sophomore.
No, I wouldn't.
I was going to be the next year.
So, no, there wasn't anything spectacular except that we got to become sophomores and we'd do back next year to break out our vengeance.
And how did you feel when you put on that sophomore regalia?
King.
We were on top of the world.
I mean, we take, I mean, what had been pushed into us was we were the best, and we found out we actually were the best.
And, you know, at that time, 50% or more was GPs, so we were fortunate to have people in the outfit making GPs.
I was one of the few that really was struggling.
All right, and your grades that second semester?
Not much improvement.
I mean, they were about the same.
Still struggling.
Hadn't learned how to study.
And what'd you do that summer?
Worked at two jobs.
One was my fourth summer at Astroworld as a fry cook, running a restaurant there, and then started that.
And then ended up working offshore Louisiana.
And that's where I spent most of my time going offshore.
When that came up, I think that was Dad's way of saying, if I don't get a degree, this is what my future held.
Interesting enough, I got actually drafted.
at a low number that summer because I'd lost my deferment when I got out of the Corps for those two weeks.
And so by the time I got back, they'd gotten it squared away.
But that would not have been the summer to have been drafted.
And then you come back for your second year.
Had you yet changed any routine or determination?
More focus, but in grades to some extent.
I actually, I've been really fortunate to come up with some neat ideas and then get people to do it.
I started an idea, and then we ended up getting about 12 of us to organize it, and then one thing led to another.
We did what was called Operation Pegasus.
That was a sophomore class in the Corps, ran from Bonfire, circled Memorial Stadium, and ended up in Eastwood Park in Austin for our own Yale practice.
And... Wait, ran from Bonfire?
Here?
My sophomore year, you betcha.
We got a big white banner that we carried.
It was in a, you know, it was a horizontal banner, Operation Pegasus.
It was white with gold frill, red letters, just like the Moore flag.
And I carried the Moore flag my sophomore year.
No, not Pegasus.
It was just the name I came up with.
I was in the Greek mythology back then and Pegasus was strong and that was it.
We had some future key student leaders.
Steve Everhard was real active in that.
But we had, we made a pitch to all of the sophomores got reps from all the units and made a pitch.
And each unit took a three mile stretch and they were responsible for two mile and a half legs.
and a guy named Stu Rayfield ended up running communications, and we had Vane, we had DPS sign off, and that's where I got on real good terms with Dean Hannigan, because he got us to all the right people.
We went to DPS and had to get insurance, and we actually marked in highway paint, got okayed by the transportation department to mark staging areas all down the deal, so it was fairly intense.
So my grades really weren't going great that semester either, but we sure had one heck of an organization and run.
That took how long?
from the time left here?
We left Bonfire.
We actually slowed up outside of Manor for a while and then got into Austin and Burl Summerall, who was a Marine at that time in one of the Marine units, his dad's a former mayor of Austin or a stepfather, so we had escort through Austin.
And we got there probably in the morning about 10 o'clock, 10.30, had TV coverage.
You're saying in?
Saturday morning.
Or not Saturday, Friday morning I guess.
So you're saying 18 hours or something like that.
And the game was then?
Was it that afternoon or the next day?
I think it was the next day.
And no problems, no accidents?
No, no.
In fact, we had to have DPS sign off and they had radio come with us the whole way.
A lot of it through the Trigon.
We had every community we went through, we had to have the police sign off on it.
We had to know where the closest medical area was.
I mean, it was a true, well done organization.
About how many people were running
We asked for just a couple of representatives because we were staging in 10-mile grips, so we'd get everybody into a 10-mile, put everybody on trucks with flatbeds and then stage them out across there at night with lights and all that kind of stuff.
Ended up, most of each class in each outfit ran, and every outfit had somebody in there.
I know in our outfit everybody did.
It was all core?
All core.
I know that the flag ultimately went to the
uh... uh... athlete uh... athletic departments i never heard what happened yet but me it was a thing that when we got to march in uh... for uh... at ut uh... everybody was going you guys have got it made i was the organizer and they would go everywhere you're on course day
And that was the best of my life at that time, and it was the worst because all of a sudden I realized I didn't have the GPs.
I wasn't going to get a core staff.
I wasn't going to get an RV.
I wasn't going to do all these things that I really, really wanted to do because I lacked one thing.
All right, what turned that around?
Basketball game against Boater University in Jolly Raleigh.
Louie Goert and I,
and a guy named Tom Moore, who was in B2, went to the game on a lark and were sitting in the stands and there were two just really cute girls in front of us that were Baylor grads.
Turns out that both of them were in Air Force ROTC at Baylor.
We started, Tom and I started dating them.
I got dumped three quarters of the way through it, but I spent every weekend, if I wanted a date, I had to be up there and we studied and we studied.
And Debbie taught me how to study in a library.
She taught me how to take notes.
And I turned around.
I think I had a 2-9 or borderline 3 of that semester.
So my grades really spiked up.
And I got into anthropology.
And so then everything started to click.
And I ended up getting to grad school.
But I mean, it was really tough.
Why anthropology?
Do you know?
What I loved about Pegasus was it was working with people and organizing things and doing things that people said you can't do.
And why would you want to spend your time doing that?
And we raised money for the March of Dimes back then as well.
When I got into Anthro, it was all about people and cultures and how organizations, different kinds of thinking of organizations, how they work.
So I just fell in love.
And Vaughn's a spectacular lecture.
I mean, I fell in love listening to his lectures.
I mean, I was ace in the courses.
Did you begin to seek his advice and counsel?
Started to talk to him, started to go on digs, got into the archaeology stuff.
It's really funny because I was a kid in uniform and everybody else had long hair and it was here in Vietnam.
But yeah, started going digs, loved it.
Where were some of the interesting digs y'all made?
The fun, there were two that came to mind.
Black Palestine had dropped some, and we were out there, some pod hunters had found some area.
Where?
Yeah, Black Palestine, or Palestine out here in East Texas.
Palestine.
And I unearthed, it was funny, because that semester I was a work-study student in the archaeology lab, so on the dig I unearthed a glob of clay.
In the lab I pieced back together a clay pipe that had
I thought that was the coolest thing.
After my senior year, because I was a five-year senior, I had to pick up language at the end.
Kathy and I got married, had a two-day honeymoon in San Antonio, came back, took finals, and we were on a dig at Lake Conroe.
And so those are the two digs that stand out.
A lot of archaeology lab work done.
All right, that sophomore year, you was important to change.
Did, were there some other acquaintances that you made that now you realize are important?
Steve was one.
Steve Reberhardt?
Yeah.
And a lot of the guys that went on course staff, we started to hang around.
I was kind of the guy that didn't get there in some ways.
There was starting to be an emphasis on extracurricular activities.
I wasn't involved outside the outfit.
I didn't get first sergeant.
I carried the flag and came number two for first sergeant in our outfit.
We won more again.
So now we've won outstanding unit two years in a row.
And if you look at John Adams' book, we're one of only two that did it three years in a row.
Now you start, you're going to class regularly.
Absolutely.
Taking notes, going to the library, and starting to get energized by anthropology.
Stayed up here that summer, recruited for incoming freshmen in the D2.
We made an art out of it.
Were you employed?
Yeah.
No, that summer I wasn't.
The other summers I was.
Did what?
I was doing it to get my GPs up.
Oh, you took some courses that summer.
Oh, okay.
And so I stayed up here, took courses, got some GPs, and we were recruiting fish into D2.
And we were looking for specific kinds of fish.
When did you first get attracted to anything at the MSC?
It was funny.
That was my senior year in the Corps.
And it caused the big rift with the few of us that were still in the outfit.
We graduated.
There were 13 of us that started out as fish.
Six of us graduated.
Three went to staff.
Three of us stayed in the outfit.
In the outfit, the CO and the EXO, the EXO was John Murray, who had his leg broken.
And I were three tight.
I mean, we were really tight my junior year.
My senior year, we weren't.
I was almost ostracized.
And part of it, there were two reasons for it.
MSC and Kathy.
And I fell in love with Kathy.
I vowed as a sophomore never ever to date one of these women that are coming to campus because they ridiculed me the very first day when I was trying to hunt a fish at the MSC.
I met Kathy who vowed that she would never date somebody in the Corps.
And so we were starting to date pretty solid then.
Now let's see, she was going to school?
Yeah, she was in the first class of women who live on campus.
She was a National Merit Scholar.
From where?
Sweeney, Texas, on an Amoco National Merit Scholarship.
Thank goodness for that, because that's what paid our first year of marriage.
Also billed Warren Russell and John Murray out of jail.
But she...
we met there's a whole side story to that we could have some time about quads that went astray but we started dating the second semester junior year got engaged then stayed up here in two different apartments I worked
in Navistote initially and then as a park ranger at Lake Somerville.
Took summer courses, Kathy did the same.
She worked actually as a waitress up in Rudder Tower at the dining hall after selling Kirby.
And so by the time we came back for our senior year, I was kind of already ostracized.
I wasn't D2 anymore, I didn't believe.
But you were still living in the Corps.
Oh absolutely, absolutely.
I mean I was just ostracized in my office.
There were only three of us, so I was ostracized.
And so what I ended up doing was I was the officer in charge of morale and extracurricular activities, and I'm going, okay, if you're going to be a leader and you're supposed to be involved in outside stuff, and even though extracurricular is only 10% in general more, let's max out the 10%.
That was my goal.
I kept stats my junior year and senior year where we stood in general moral rankings.
And so we had all that stuff in there.
So I got active in political forum.
And so between anthropology, Cathy and political forum, I fell in love with the whole part of the A&M I'd never seen before.
It was good times.
I mean, that was absolutely the best year.
My grades were doing much better.
Did Wayne Stark kind of draw you into his... Not at that stage.
I was a committee chairman and Wayne...
put a lot of stock in the officers.
He didn't like committee chairmen because we were too mavericks.
Too much of a maverick.
And political forum and great issues in Scotland were pretty maverick.
We fought each other all the time for resources and everything else.
So my senior year I was major programs chair and so my fifth year when I was working on a degree and I was outside the corps was the year I was chair of political forum.
No.
Was that the year?
Yeah, and then my graduate year I was president.
All right, with political forum, who were, describe any experiences you remember of having some high visibility people here to speak?
The year I was chair, we had, oh, it was cool.
We had John Anderson and Bob Strauss.
John Anderson, who was a minority leader at that time, and Bob Strauss, who just left his ambassadorship at that stage.
They were talking Democrat, Republican Party.
We had Bob Phillips, or Howard Phillips, who at that time was way on the conservative side, and Frank McElwood's way on the liberal side.
And so they were our speakers.
And the reason I got energized about PF and the MSC as a whole
Here was a place that somebody that was a nobody could sit there and talk with people who took time out to listen to them and talk and treat them as an adult.
And that was really unusual.
And we did all the sketch stuff.